Article 1 – Subject-matter and objectives
This Regulation lays down rules relating to the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and rules relating to the free movement of personal data.

Article 2 – Material scope
This Regulation applies to the processing of personal data wholly or partly by automated means and to the processing other than by automated means of personal data which form part of a filing system or are intended to form part of a filing system.

Article 3 – Territorial scope
This Regulation applies to the processing of personal data in the context of the activities of an establishment of a controller or a processor in the Union.

Article 4 – Definitions
For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: (1) ‘personal data’ means any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person...

Article 5 – Principles relating to processing of personal data
Personal data shall be processed lawfully, fairly and in a transparent manner in relation to the data subject...

Article 6 – Lawfulness of processing
Processing shall be lawful only if and to the extent that at least one of the following applies...

Article 7 – Conditions for consent
Where processing is based on consent, the controller shall be able to demonstrate that the data subject has consented...

Article 8 – Conditions applicable to child's consent
Where Article 6(1)(a) applies, in relation to the offer of information society services directly to a child...

Article 9 – Processing of special categories of personal data
Processing of personal data revealing racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs...

Article 10 – Processing of personal data relating to criminal convictions and offences
Processing of personal data relating to criminal convictions and offences or related security measures...

Article 11 – Processing which does not require identification
If the purposes for which a controller processes personal data do not or no longer require the identification...

Article 12 – Transparent information, communication and modalities for the exercise of the rights of the data subject
The controller shall take appropriate measures to provide any information...

Article 13 – Information to be provided where personal data are collected from the data subject
Where personal data relating to a data subject are collected from the data subject, the controller shall...

Article 14 – Information to be provided where personal data have not been obtained from the data subject
Where personal data have not been obtained from the data subject, the controller shall provide the data subject...

Article 15 – Right of access by the data subject
The data subject shall have the right to obtain from the controller confirmation as to whether or not personal data...

Article 16 – Right to rectification
The data subject shall have the right to obtain from the controller without undue delay the rectification...

Article 17 – Right to erasure (‘right to be forgotten’)
The data subject shall have the right to obtain from the controller the erasure of personal data...

Article 18 – Right to restriction of processing
The data subject shall have the right to obtain from the controller restriction of processing...

Article 19 – Notification obligation regarding rectification or erasure of personal data or restriction of processing
The controller shall communicate any rectification or erasure of personal data...

Article 20 – Right to data portability
The data subject shall have the right to receive the personal data concerning him or her, which he or she has provided to a controller, in a structured, commonly used and machine-readable format.